# metadata

> Create manifest files to share between projects.

**WIP** Initial thoughts on metadata.

Install with [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)

```sh
$ npm i metadata --save
```

## Usage

```js
var Metadata = require('metadata');
```

## API

### [Metadata](index.js#L28)

Create a new metadata instance.

**Params**

* `cache` **{Object}**: initial cache to use
* `options` **{Object}**: Options to put on the instance.

**Example**

```js
var metadata = new Metadata();
```

### [.use](index.js#L55)

Use plugins on the metadata object. When a plugin returns a function,
the function will be run against new targets that are added.

**Params**

* `fn` **{Function}**: Plugin function to run.
* `returns` **{Object}** `this`: for chaining

### [.mixin](index.js#L72)

Add a property to the `Metadata` prototype

**Params**

* `key` **{String}**: Name of the property to add.
* `value` **{*}**: Property to add to the prototype.

### [.addDependency](index.js#L88)

Add a dependency to the manifest.

**Params**

* `key` **{String}**: Name of the dependency to add.
* `val` **{String}**: Location of the dependency to add (github repo, url);

**Example**

```js
metadata.addDependency('foo', 'doowb/foo');
```

### [.addDependencies](index.js#L109)

Add a has of dependencies to the manifest.

**Params**

* `deps` **{Object}**: Object hash of dependencies to add.

**Example**

```js
metadata.addDependencies({
  'foo': 'doowb/foo',
  'bar': 'doowb/bar'
});
```

### [.addTarget](index.js#L126)

Add a new target configuration to the manifest. The configuration will be expanded using [scaffold][]

**Params**

* `key` **{String}**: Name of the target to add.
* `config` **{Object}**: Object describing the configuration of the target.

**Example**

```js
metadata.addTarget('app', {src: '*.js'});
```

### [.addTargets](index.js#L154)

Add an object hash of targets to the manifest.

**Params**

* `config` **{Object}**: Object hash of target configurations to add.

**Example**

```js
metadata.addTargets({
  app: {src: '*.js'},
  tests: {src: 'tests/*.js'},
  docs: {src: 'docs/*.md'}
});
```

### [.toJSON](index.js#L170)

Return the actual manifest object to be used when writing out to a json file.

* `returns` **{Object}**: Object representation of the manifest.

**Example**

```js
fs.writeFileSync('manifest.json', JSON.stringify(metadata, null, 2));
```

### [.normalize](index.js#L187)

Normalizes a manifest object by passing the manifest through a list of transforms.

**Params**

* `manifest` **{Object}**: Object representing a manifest to normalize.
* `returns` **{Object}**: normalized manifest object

**Example**

```js
metadata.normalize(require('./manifest.json'));
```

### [.load](index.js#L202)

Load a manifest object onto the metadata cache.

**Params**

* `manifest` **{Object}**: Object representing a manifest to load onto the cache.

**Example**

```js
metadata.load(require('./manifest.json'));
```

## Running tests

Install dev dependencies:

```sh
$ npm i -d && npm test
```

## Contributing

Pull requests and stars are always welcome. For bugs and feature requests, [please create an issue](https://github.com/doowb/metadata/issues/new).

## Author

**Brian Woodward**

+ [github/doowb](https://github.com/doowb)
+ [twitter/doowb](http://twitter.com/doowb)

## License

Copyright © 2015 Brian Woodward
Released under the MIT license.

***

_This file was generated by [verb-cli](https://github.com/assemble/verb-cli) on October 06, 2015._